on YouTube when you've talked about an
issue a hundred times you get emails
asking you to talk about the issue 101
times I'm not complaining
I am duly flattered if this is the first
time you've seen my channel the first
time you've heard my voice have seen my
faith let me tell you something if you
search this channel for the word dog cat
domestication pets these are issues I
have weighed in on heavily and I have in
a sense taken the fight to other vegan
YouTube channels other vegan authorities
and opinion makers I have challenged
many of the comfortable compromises and
assumptions and excuses that vegans make
for themselves
I have heard vegans say that they are
strictly vegan and yet they buy meat
they buy dead cows in a metal can to
feed to their cats every day and they
live with those contradictions and they
have their own kooky philosophy making
excuses for it I have heard unnatural
vegan herself say with a shocking lack
of self-awareness that she believes that
taking care of a dog entails that you
literally cut its balls off that
castration is simply part of taking good
care of a domesticated animal and
therefore there's nothing ethically
problematic about it in a very strange
boiling frog way he's a very non vegan
image it is interesting to me the people
who start off from a position of such
strident moral purity end up
step-by-step coming into terrible
unconscionable moral compromises and
that is what happened to Richard vegan
gains and I say it with all due sympathy
when you look at step by step the
process vegan gains stumbled through
with his dog you can see he had good
intentions he feels love for this dog he
feels attachment to this dog this dog is
a domesticated animal that is dependent
on him to care for it and he feels that
that care and that responsibility now
requires him to buy meat from a butcher
and keep pieces of chopped up you know
cows and deer in a cooler to feed his
dog which for any vegan
is horrifying and unethical and I think
he himself very well recognizes the you
know a moral quandary he's found himself
trapped in but he also doesn't feel that
he can just put this dog to death that
he can kill this dog in order to in an
abstract sense save the lives of an
animal that are being slaughtered in
order to feed the dog okay
so it's a terrible unconscionable
situation and it's very important in
these situations to have sympathy for
both sides it's important to have
sympathy for the devil
why not because sympathy is meaningful
in itself but because sympathy is an
analytical tool by sympathizing with
Richard by sympathizing with the
situation he's in we understand this joy
she's in and we understand something
about veganism itself so I've talked
about this issue 100 times and I'm going
to talk about it 200 times because this
is important for vegans as individuals
all kinds of vegans live with these
terrible compromises of buying pieces of
dead cow meat in a can to feed their cat
it's important for the future of the
movement okay um I am known for shifting
this debate away from the question of
the happiness of the animal to instead
talking about the dignity of the animal
and I think that vegans themselves fail
to recognize that they are standing on
the same shaky ground meat eaters stand
on when meat-eaters make excuses for all
the terrible things they do in trying to
appeal to the self-evident happiness of
these animals I saw a dog here a couple
of weeks ago here in this part of China
where I live and it has the collar
around its neck and a chain going from
its neck to the wall and it had a bowl a
plastic bowl in front of it with food
that was put there by a human hand and
in terms of the expression on its face
sitting there in the sunshine in this
beautiful climate that dog looked as
happy as could be as happy as could be
in its chains its literal chains but I
got to tell you something there's a very
real sense in which that dog is not as
happy as it could be it is not happy at
all this dog has been castrated
domesticated broke
it never had a relationship with its own
mother it's never gonna be a parent
itself and raise its own kids it's never
gonna know what it's like to run in a
pack it's never gonna know what it's
like to forage and explore the
wilderness it's never gonna know what
it's like for a pack of dogs to take
down a prey animal to you know to kill a
deer and tear it apart and then to have
the competition that happens within the
dog pack for which dog eats first which
dog is alpha and which dog is is beta
and so on that is the life of a dog not
a wolf a dog and all its happiness and
all its joy the full range of what it
can experience in this world is defined
by that life in its own species you know
and can never be replaced by a human
hand putting the chopped-up remains of a
cow in a plastic bowl for it okay
happiness for a dog can never consist of
you know a leather collar and a steel
chain attaching it to the wall and you
know I grew up around cats and dogs like
most of you people did I grew up in
Canada I've lived in Asia for many many
years but you know I'm Canadian
originally and you know we're all raised
with this myth that the happiest a cat
can be is for a cat to be fed this way
for a cat to live a life of leisure for
a cat to be stroked by a human hand and
make this purring noise let me tell you
something it's not happiness for a cat
and both male and female cats their
behaviors are totally transformed by
having their their natural hormones
their natural instincts ripped out of
their bodies you can live around cats
that you know cats that have the
experience of being in heat cats that
have the experience of spraying that
have all of these predatory instincts as
well as meeting instincts that come from
their hormones and when cats are
domesticated to be turned into a toy for
human entertainment this is this whole
range of behaviors is physically torn
out of their body and they're deprived
of ever having that experience and you
know yes you can pet a cat and if it's
raised from birth as a kitten being
petted with the human hand then they
will tolerate it and they'll purr at you
and they'll look you in the eye so
totally unnatural relationship between
species here
and it doesn't make the cat happy you
may think that's what happiness is
forget you may think you're perceiving
these animals as happy you may think
you're making them happy by
domesticating them treating them as a
toy having them lie on your rug and
watch television next to you that's not
what a cat wants that's not what a cat
enjoys let me tell you the happiest I've
ever seen a cat I was doing humanitarian
work in northwestern Laos near the
border with Myanmar in villages that are
on the official list of the most poverty
stricken villages villages where people
still experience seasonal starvation our
charity was handing out sacks of rice to
starving people
we were also carrying out improvements
to agriculture there was a cat it was
not a very large cat and this cat I
can't even call it really domesticated
it would come around and take some white
rice and yellow lentils from the human
beings living and we were running this
charity the officers you could say at
this nonprofit and the only meat in the
cat's diet was what it hunted for itself
this cat did not like to be pet petted
by human hands it didn't try to
entertain us it didn't try to make us
happy and I saw that cat kill a rat that
was almost bigger than the cat I mean
the two of them side-by-side were about
the same size it was a huge jungle rat
and a favorite small adult cat and I
don't know honestly I don't know if this
cat liked me of everyone in this house
it could have brought the near everyone
in this village or in a village in
northern Laos this cat climbed up
through my window to show me this rat
had killed lying next to me on the bed
and you have never seen such joy and I
mean you know just the accomplishment of
it this cat had killed a rat it looked
like a fair fight they're about the same
size the joy this cat experienced you
know through this natural predator prey
activity was unbelievable let me tell
you something so I'm lying there in bed
I open my eyes this is this enormous rat
next to me and this cat leaping up and
down with joy to show me this this
Rattata kill I've never seen in my life
a cat so happy and I took some news
prints and I picked up the rat without
wanting to touch it with my bare hands
and I threw the rat as far as I could
into the forest into the trees I tried
to go back to sleep and let me tell you
something in the darkness I don't know
half an hour later I heard this thumping
again and when I turned on my flashlight
because there was no electricity there's
the cat it had gone out and found the
rat again and trap didn't serve I would
go again just to uh just to show me how
prominent was the second time oh I had I
had to close up the windows to keep the
cat in the rat out look um the claims
you're making about making a dog happy
by domesticating it our deeply flawed
they're logically flawed they're
ethically flawed they're morally flawed
and I think that this is what this is
why I challenge people to compare the
attitudes and excuses we have for
domesticated animals to the way we
approach the same problems with wild
animals I'm really open to the range of
highly emotional and highly
idiosyncratic decisions that that people
make on these things we had a situation
in Canada when I was there recently
where the mother bear was killed but the
baby bears there were two bear cubs that
looked cute and people wanted to save
the lives of these bear cubs well okay
the mother bear is is is dead and the
official order some Canadian government
was that the two the two Cubs should be
killed also and but the photos got in
the newspaper and people trying to raise
money you have to really ask yourself
these bear cubs if they can never live
in the wild again can they ever be happy
you can say you're rescuing them you can
say you're giving them life instead of
death but the fact that their mother is
already dead
does that justify castrating them
domesticating them does it justify
killing dozens of cows in order to feed
them beef every day does it justify
giving these bear cubs of life where
they will never be more than a human toy
obviously they're never going to know
they're our mother they're never gonna
have children themselves what is the
life we're offering these bears or these
dogs or these cats why is it so easy for
vegans to justify as animal liberation
what is so obviously slavery and slavery
of an especially demeaning kind how did
we come to a point in this movement
where people will stand up and spit in
your face and scream at you that killing
a spider is morally equivalent to
killing a human being because speciesism
and yes we literally justify keeping an
animal in a cage keeping an animal in on
a chain we justify that as liberation
and as sanctuary okay whatever animal
liberation looks like to you I am saying
loud and clear on this channel and I've
always been saying liberation and
domestication are mutually exclusive
they're incompatible they're not the
same thing and we as a movie just stop
making excuses we need to stop making
excuses for the whole range of
activities when you stop making excuses
for animal rescue for animal adoption
for animal sanctuaries we have to look
at the category of how what animal lives
in the wild and the dignity in both life
and death that an animal has in the
forest or in the ocean when it lives on
its own terms when it's not dependent on
a human hand to train it and it's not
dependent on a human hand to feed it and
it doesn't suffer a human hand
castrating it or defanging it or
declawing it okay that has to become the
moral baseline for veganism as a
movement and not the image of dogs and
cats as our toys as our so-called
companions all right
and guys stop saying that your dog is a
member of your family all right we have
all the
discourse all this rhetoric about the
comparison between Animal Liberation and
the abolition of slavery do you not know
that slave masters said the same things
do you not know that the same excuses
were made when human beings were in
Chains we said oh no he you know this
slave is not an employee it's a member
of the family the slave is not being
exploited slaves literally help people
raise their babies you know you had
slaves breastfeeding their babies and
and putting them in the cradle and
helping with day to day activities well
this is worldwide this isn't just about
American history we have slavery here in
Southeast Asia slavery in the history of
India all over the world okay it's true
people did sleep under the same roof
with their slaves the slaves did live
with people as members of their family
and yet there was a fundamental
inequality or there's a fundamental
iniquity this is a fundamental ethical
question that cannot be waived away by
saying this slave is a member of my
family and guys it changes nothing you
look at a meat-eater in a car test and
say when they do it it's animal
exploitation it's oppression but when we
do it it's animal liberation all of us
need to grow up no matter how much
sympathy I have for either side so in
this case guys it's rare that I can say
I'm making a video by popular demand but
in this case I know vegan gains
personally I know vegan cheetah
personally and among the people who
wrote to me asking that they wanted to
know my my view on this are both vegan
gains and finca cheetah and I'm
flattered okay
it's appreciate getting correspondence
for both of them I have my differences
both though both of them I have my
criticisms of both of them but it's it's
interesting they themselves were weren't
isn't hearing what I have to say now
some of you might be expecting this
video to be formatted in such a way as
to say well is vegan gains right or is
vegan cheetah right because I know them
personally I know that both of them
actually agree with me on this issue I'm
not joking and therefore there's a
fundamental sense in which they agree
with each other whether or not they will
ever recognize it in terms of the deeper
and more fundamental ethical issues here
we get into a gray area where we're not
talking about issues that are simply
true or false we're talking about
Diaz that are true within limits that
are true and meaningful and useful in
some circumstances and are misleading or
meaningless or false in others okay
this word speciesism depending on how we
use it and in what context we use it it
may be meaningful and it may be
meaningless I in practice I do not live
my life as if a cockroach and a human
being are of equal value I don't I'm
divorced now back when my daughter was a
newborn baby I was living in the South
of France and you know I laid out mats
on the floor for her to play on now I
don't think the cockroaches were a
threat to her life but I did not want my
daughter to have cockroaches on her body
and I killed cockroaches so that my
daughter could play on the floor and I
didn't have to worry about cockroaches
being on the same floor with her okay
it's not a life it's not self-defense
it's not justifiable in that sense that
is just a contradiction I chose to
embrace I chose to live with that to me
it was more important in that sense that
my home be clean totally human centric
notion that I didn't have cockroaches
there and I was I was a strict vegan and
every other unloved and I really
suffered there as a vegan my life was
very hard sure I know it sounds
ridiculous but here in China in many
ways it's much easier for me to be a
vegan than it was there in France at
that time that was very very tough and I
did stick to my principles in so many
ways but I could just recognize no I
value my daughters I can't even say her
life or her well-being
I value my daughter's convenience this
is a newborn baby crawling around on the
floor and I don't want her to have to
crawling with cockroaches this is
keeping it all the way real so I don't
know how many hundred cockroaches I
killed and if I actually believed this
doctrine of speciesism of all species
being equal what do you want me to tell
you that I feel the same way about it
that I would feel about killing 100
people I don't I'm not going to I don't
even regret it I just recognize it as a
moral contradiction in my life
look guys every single time you get on
an airplane you're paying to kill
animals we don't actually believe that
the value of the life of a bird is equal
to the value of the lives of the people
that are on the airplanes pretty much
every airport in the world has people
and devices that are set up to try to
kill birds because they got to keep the
birds away from the aircraft if a bird
flies into an aircraft engine which does
happen every year you know it's in in
significant numbers when birds get
caught in the aircraft engine it can
destroy the airplane it cause the
airplane to have an emergency landing or
to crash all right and it is interesting
if you look into it some airports have
protect protected species of bird nearby
or have endangered species and they try
to keep the birds away through various
means some of them are mechanical some
of them have guide lead teams of dogs
barking around the perimeter of the of
the or they do all kinds of things try
to scare the birds away but at the end
of the day if you're running an airport
whether it's a military airport a
domestic airport we kill birds so that
we can fly our planes all right for me
as a vegan am I gonna stop flying on
airplanes or am I gonna say no we can't
do this we have to abolish airplanes for
this reason Oh or on the other hand what
if I was offered that job what if it was
my job at the airport to be the guy who
kills birds for human safety on
airplanes there is with this concept
speciesism there's a point of
diminishing returns or there's a limit
beyond which this is starting to become
surreal and I'm not saying it's good I'm
not even saying it's normal or it's okay
I'm saying these are the ethical
contradictions we all live with as human
beings and you can close your eyes to
them and you can define veganism in a
way that's incompatible with real life
on earth or you can face up to them and
in a pragmatic sense move on I commented
on Twitter recently that we really do
have a problem in veganism where people
look for leadership to people who are
the most morally pure and those are
sometimes you know highly eccentric
fruitarians
living a very strange diet live a very
stern
lifestyle devoted to just their diet and
exercise okay I'm actually not
interested in a movement that is
completely morally pure and uninterested
in the leadership of people who are
completely morally pure I'm quite
willing to work with people who roll
their sleeves up and get their hands
dirty
I am literally willing to work with
people have blood on their hands okay
because I come out of a political
background I'm interested in people who
are gonna be getting things done I'm
interested in outcomes I'm interested in
actually saving the planet I'm
interested in taking the vegan movement
forward politically in a way that's
really gonna change the world and if
that means we cooperate with people who
are hunters but who really care about
conservation and ecology you have a
vegan foundation we Quadra those people
I can imagine doing that and all of us
have blood on our hands the production
of bread requires killing insects and
killing rats and all these
contradictions is this an excuse no I
think one of the fundamental
contradictions with vegan gains offers
that I wouldn't agree with is that vegan
gains says that his purchase of the dog
if he gave the dog to someone else
they would have to make the same
purchases anyway they would have to also
buy meat
so he says logically it doesn't make any
difference for him to refuse to buy meat
because someone else taking care of the
dog would be would be buying me instead
you know I care about ecology I try to
minimize the number of airplane flights
I take with an effort every year and
every every month seriously I've taken
long bus trips sometimes here within
Asia to avoid taking airplanes because I
think ecologically we have to do our
part that way and really minimize the
number of airplane teachers do I don't
do it to save the lives of the birds
maybe I should but it's a fringe benefit
look if there are empty seats on an
airplane if only one fewer person buys
an airplane ticket the airplane is still
gonna fly right with a few more empty
seats
maybe the airplane is 30% empty anyway
right so is there an ecological impact
or should I need the enema the attitude
of saying it can never make a difference
because one person buying one fewer
airplane ticket can't impact ecology you
can
describe this attitude as rational and
logical but it is actually immoral
morally you have to focus on the
difference that you can make not on the
difference that you can't make ethically
you have to say the difference I can
make is this one airplane seat and it is
not rational it is not logical it is not
reasonable to say that I should buy that
seat anyway because I can't control the
other 500 seats on the airplane all
right ethically veganism is based on the
idea I'm not gonna kill this cow all
right I'm not gonna pay money for a
butcher to kill a cow and give me meat
and it is fundamentally unbeaten to look
at that same situation say well I can
buy this meat because if I don't buy it
somebody else will
right I have a separate video talking
about the boycott mentality the
limitations of the boycott mentality
boycotting is not the effective way to
change the world how are you can
eliminate drunk driving you personally
boycotting alcohol won't do it how you
can eliminate smoking how are you gonna
change from having a culture where
cigarette smoking is accepted everywhere
to a culture where it's regarded very
negatively what's more sir it's not
gonna be just through boycotts it's not
just gonna be me boycotting cigarettes
or coming on YouTube and telling
everyone else they should boycott
cigarettes also there has to be a
dynamic process of political change in
cultural change there's a lot more to it
than that right but I refuse to believe
that it is meaningless for me to make
the ethically correct decision whether
it's the airplane ticket or buying a
meat or what-have-you
right so logic itself the idea of being
logical and pragmatic can be profoundly
misleading and ultimately it can be
unethical its implications this is an
interesting interesting case of that
this is I'm done with all you most
speciesism for this video I think but
likewise this concept nature every time
you use the word nature natural etc it
doesn't mean it's a logical fallacy
doesn't mean it's an error nature is not
meaningless sometime
the concept of an appeal to nature is a
fallacy but not always is it natural for
a human being to kiss a dog people
literally photograph themselves kissing
the dogs and say I don't care if you
criticize me because you're a vegan I
know my dog is happy here's my dog
kissing me really think about what
you're doing here
really think about what you're doing in
terms of the natural order of predator
prey in nature a pack of dogs would hunt
down and kill and eat a human being okay
this is not a natural relationship it's
natural for dogs to kiss one another to
lick each other or what-have-you in
their own species it's natural for them
to smell each other's asses I don't see
you as a human being smelling your dog's
bum right this is a human concept of a
kiss this dog has been trained to
reciprocate kissing this hairless ape
that feeds it it's completely surreal
and yet we have an idea of of happiness
that this animal is happy and you're a
shoeing and evading the question of
dignity is this dignified for the animal
alright and it's only because it's
culturally familiar I think so people
post on Facebook them kissing their dog
them kissing their cat like it's normal
I don't see a lot of people posting a
photo of themselves kissing a chimpanzee
kissing a monkey kissing an ape
if you post that building hey that's
weird that's unnatural I don't see
people posting a photo of themselves
kissing penguin how's the Penguins
supposed to live as a penguin supposed
to be a toy for human entertainment is a
penguin supposed to be taken away from
its family as a newborn baby it's a new
hatched baby and trained to lie on the
carpet next to you while you watch TV a
penguin can do all those things right
but we think of some animals as wild
animals and some we don't think of as
those in those terms at all and that is
deeply immoral and deeply misleading and
deeply problematic and very glad to say
that in the last two years by my
relentlessly engaging in these debates I
have led quite a number of vegans to
change their opinions on
to wake up and recognize this kind of
cognitive dissonance this kind of
fundamental problem and among the people
who agree with me on this again
the vegan lass named Lauren Kensi vegan
gains himself vegan treat himself vegan
cheetah made videos supporting me on
this issue and they were very very
controversial at the time many of his
own zone followers were shocked
challenging vegans on the assumptions
behind domestication of animals and
Annie as you guys may remember too
unnatural vegan in challenging the
excuses she makes for keeping pets
domestication animals etc so the excuses
made for dogs and cats seem to just rely
on cultural familiarity I remember
talking to a tourist in Laos a white
person who was in Laos in Southeast Asia
and she was deeply horrified she simply
got on the bus next to another white
person who had a monkey on his shoulder
it was a baby monkey and he had paid
money he had taken this monkey away from
its mother to have on his shoulder as a
pet and she was deeply horrified and
shocked and she asked all these
questions but how did he buy the monkey
and what happened to its mother and you
know she was just horrified but her
final question for this guy was cuz he
was there as a tourist he was a white
guy in Southeast Asia for only a few
months what will you do with the monkey
when you fly back to America at the end
of this you get in a plane he said oh I
don't know I guess I'll just like put it
in the forest you know to die presumably
you know why and you know it's just
creepy seeing a human being pet and kiss
and care for a monkey familiar excuses
are evil things you know but people
would not perceive it as evil if that
same guy had gotten on the bus with a
puppy or with a kitten right and it's
the same evil and if you're making
excuses and I've got hundreds of emails
like that people right he was saying
well a penguin is different from a dog a
bear is different from a cat a monkey is
different from a puppy
that is speciesism that's the sense in
which speciesism really is a meaningful
concept for us to employ within veganism
we have those old t-shirts why do you
love one and kill the other why do you
make this excuse for dogs and you don't
make this excuse for piglets that is the
sense of which speciesism is an
important and useful concept we need to
use and as I say the question of what's
natural and what's unnatural for human
beings and for monkeys and for dogs and
for pigs and for cats it is meaningful
okay it is meaningful to talk about
natural and unnatural relations between
human beings and animals um I had a
really short video only two minutes long
in which I raised this question of why
do vegans think it's different when we
do it then when the meat eaters do it
and I showed video tape of another
youtuber who eats meat a car nests
whatever you want to say playing with
her pet dog so what when we do this when
we basically buy and own animals as our
property and so on we are doing exactly
the same things as meat-eating pet
owners but we valorize it as Animal
Liberation or animal rescue the fact
that you've rescued a dog doesn't
justify castrating it morally it doesn't
it doesn't justify keeping it in
captivity it doesn't justify reducing it
to being your plaything and a
declaration of it doesn't this is deeply
deeply immoral but vegans have a self
perception that they're highly moral
highly ethical in doing exactly the same
thing that the meat eaters are doing so
I've asked that question the channel 4
but I didn't answer the question ok
here's the answer
vegans are actually making exactly the
same excuses for pet ownership for
exploitation - desiccated animals we're
making exactly the same excuses that
meat eaters would make for wearing
second-hand leather for wearing
secondhand fur the crucial excuse that
vegans make is that it's a secondhand
pet that's what a rescue is people it's
the same industry by wearing leather or
by wearing fur you're still supporting
the animal exploiting industries you're
still supporting the meat industry and
the veal industry and the dairy industry
and the leather industry they're one
industry people those are different
stages of the same cycle of suffering
the same process of exploitation it's
one and the same industry and we
recognize that in our refusal to wear
leather even if you got the leather at a
secondhand shop even if you got the
leather from your grandfather and in
Candida a lot of people in that position
in Canada a lot of us had a grandmother
who wore a fur coat the grandmother dies
the grandmother gives you the fur coat
and vegans got to ask what is the harm
in wearing a fur coat if you didn't pay
for it you didn't buy it right and a lot
of people are approaching vegan gains
for this because he did pay some money
for this dog as opposed to paying for it
to get it from a rescue to get it from a
shelter most of those that I know you do
have to pay you still pay money to
so-called rescue an animal when you go
to a kill shelter or no kill shelter
it's the [ __ ] reality you're just
paying different people okay why do we
refuse to recognize that it's a
different stage of the same industry one
says I do not give a [ __ ] about the
difference between vegan gains buying
his dog from some woman he met on
Facebook as opposed to going to a
shelter operated by peda or a shelter
off operated by the local dog pound run
by the mayor's office okay I don't give
a [ __ ] because these are different
stages of the same industry if you're
wearing a leather coat I don't care if
you bought it secondhand I don't care if
you bought it at Goodwill I don't care
if you bought it at a discount
Supercenter I don't care if you bought
it at a designer shop I don't care it's
still leather it's the same industry
these are just different stages of the
same industry but this is the excuse
that vegans cling to well past the point
of absurdity well past the point of oh I
rescued this cat
therefore I pay money to kill a cow chop
it up put it in metal can and feed this
cat every day why do you love one and
kill the other why do you love dogs and
kill pigs right we've seen the slogan on
a t-shirt we've seen on a poster
well vegans that's what you're doing
when you decide that the life of this
cat is worth five cows a year or however
many cows you're killing to provide this
cat with cat food all right this is not
an ethical compromise this is an evil
that has simply become familiar in our
culture so familiar that it's invisible
the same way that the evil of wearing
leather shoes is invisible because it is
ubiquitous and it's observed that I'm
making this video not asking me teeters
to wake up to this evil I'm asking you
I'm asking my fellow vegans I'm asking
the people who have sworn they'll never
make this compromise to wake up and
recognize the evil that's become a part
of their daily lives whether that's in
buying dog food or cat food or in making
these ludicrous excuses for how a
so-called rescue animal a so-called
animal sanctuary is different from any
other form of castrating and
domesticated animal keeping in a cage
keeping it on a chain all right the idea
that what you're doing is morally pure
because you are not creating market
demand is surreal I can set up a yogurt
factory
across the street from a dairy farm and
I can only buy milk that's gone past its
expiration date to make yogurt and then
I can claim I'm not creating demand even
better example I can sell whey protein
whey powder is made into protein and
sold the bodybuilders I can only buy
dairy products that are expired that
would be thrown in the garbage I could
say oh this meat would have gone in the
garbage anyway this milk would have gone
in the garbage and instead of taking
that and I've recycled it to make whey
powder to make yogurt to make some other
derivative highly processed product and
sell that on to human beings it's the
same industry it's just a different
stage of the same industry
you're still perpetuating the cycle of
human beings buying animal products as
food or buying animal products as
clothes all right I don't want to hear
it to me the idea that you are not
creating market demand is actually
immoral or at least immoral and
meaningless and I've got to tell you
something I've educated with veganism
for so many years now I've never heard
even one other person say that and just
recently we had Garry francais on a
weighing in on the debate about dumpster
diving about taking meat out of the
garbage can or what have you and so that
was looking at this question of waste
meat products from various different
angles and yet it seems to never never
get to that point of saying simply for
the same reason this is the fundamental
difference in veganism and vegetarianism
as a vegetarian you may accept the
argument that vegetarians wear leather
but don't eat meat because they feel
that the leather is a by-product and the
meat is the direct product okay part of
the fundamental premise of veganism is
that we don't accept that distinction
because we ultimately want to abolish
the whole industry we want to abolish
the whole slaughterhouse want to abolish
the leather tannery we want to abolish
the production of milk and the
production of veal because we recognize
they are two separate stages of the same
industry and that is a logically clear
and coherent and ethical position for us
to adopt and now we have to live up to
our own hype in applying that same
standard to the pet industry to the
domestication of animals when it's not
for clothing when it's not for food when
it's merely for so-called companionship